About Us | Cadre AI AI designed for the bottom line We turn enterprise AI into real profitability, scale, and enterprise value. 3x higher success rate with a strategic AI partner 100+ high‑ROI use cases delivered across 50+ companies As your AI Strategy & Implementation Partner, ‍ we help you Drive Revenue Scale faster with AI-driven automation and predictive insights that unlock new growth opportunities. Increase Profitability Optimize operations and eliminate inefficiencies to boost profit margins and enterprise value. Elevate Employees Remove tedious tasks and empower your team to focus on high-impact, meaningful work. The numbers don't lie. AI projects developed with specialized vendors have a sucess rate 300% higher . than in-house AI projects. State of AI in Business 2025, MIT The Cadre Way The mindset and behaviors we hire for, reward, and live by Growth Mindset We are lifelong learners on a mission to get 1% better every single day Extreme Ownership We own the problem, the solution, and the outcome, regardless of scenario Team First We constantly find ways to make the entire team and company better Scrappy We are adaptable, resourceful, and always solving problems So at CADRE AI, we are a people business. We've AI enabled our business, but our success is purely based on having the best team aligned to a shared vision and mission. We have to treat them amazing. Partners. We have to help them accomplish their personal goals in their career. There's four things that we want every teammate to embody. And the first one is a growth mindset. We want people that are curious, that want to learn, that want to look in the mirror every day and say, how do I get better? The second one is extreme ownership. You will run through that wall, you are deadline oriented, and you take great pride in what you deliver, and you don't wanna let your team members down. The third one is teamwork. We are a team. We win together, we lose together. They're doing their role great, but they are finding ways to positively impact our team and business way beyond what their role is. And last but not least, the fourth is we are scrappy. We are agile, b we are resourceful. We want people that are nimble, agile, fast, comfortable working in in the vague areas and figuring it out. Leadership Team Behind every great solution is a team of passionate innovators, problem-solvers, and visionaries. Grayson Lafrenz Founder / CEO Keith Jensen President Riley Stricklin Founder | Chief Strategy Officer Nicole Kelley CFO Sarah McLoughlin Chief Client Officer Chad Lohrli Founder | Chief AI Officer Katie Boes VP, Client Strategy and Partnerships Ben Shapiro Co-Founder | Head of AI Strategy The growth mindset, especially when you bring on a new team member, is really getting the kind of people that want to move forward every day. They want to get better every day. It takes a lot of reflection on sort of what you did the day before, what you did in the weeks before, what didn't work, how to improve the next day and the next month. At CADRE, you notice that the people here are really ambitious. They come in, they come excited, they come motivated. You feel the momentum in the building. I think it's when you identify a problem, whether it's in your own area or in the business, and really owning that problem, owning the solution, taking responsibility for anything that you identify that's in your area. When I think of extreme ownership, I would say you never wanna point the finger at the team around you. You wanna own the problem and make sure that you can fix it going forward. If you love moving quickly, you love to learn, you love to jump forward and evaluate the past. When I'm talking to people who ask what it's like here at CADRE, I let them know, you know, it's fast paced. You're gonna learn from some really smart people. It's gonna be quick, but it's gonna be exciting at the same time. AI is cutting edge. It's new. It's moving fast, and we get to be part of that journey. Join the Best Team in AI We're building a collection of innovators and the most talented minds in AI who are passionate about transforming how businesses operate and eager to grow their careers at the cutting edge of technology. If you're ready to be on a rocket ship with a cadre of AI-first problem solvers tackling exciting challenges that actually matter, we want to hear from you. Join the Team Company Home About Careers Terms of Service Privacy Policy Contact Us Services AI Strategy AI Leadership & Facilitation AI Engineering AI Agents Resources Case Studies Articles AI 2030 Podcast 2030 Podcast Events Industries AI for Professional Services AI for Private Equity AI for Real Estate AI for Financial Services AI for Mortgage & Lending AI for Construction AI for Retail & E-commerce AI for Manufacturing & Logistics AI for Hospitality Departments AI for Legal AI for Technology AI for Marketing AI for Customer Success AI for Finance AI for Operations AI for Executive Leadership AI for Sales Cadre AI Your AI Strategy & Implementation Firm ©2026 Cadre AI
