AI Transformation Intensive Your complete strategy for AI transformation Our AI Transformation Intensive is not about tools. It's not about pilots. It's the full, co-authored blueprint for how your organization will evolve with AI now and over the next 3 years. Start your AI Transformation today Our Strategic Approach The AI Transformation Intensive. Your leadership team and ours. Co-authored strategy: where you stand, where you need to go, and exactly how to get there from Kickoff to 12-Month Roadmap. Your AI transformation intensive starts by bringing your leadership team and ours together so we can align on what's to come. This isn't a vague strategy conversation. This is where we lay out exactly what the upcoming weeks look like and what you can expect to receive. We walk through getting your AI maturity index dialed in, the full day workshop, the use case library, the three year vision, and twelve month road map. You'll know what's happening, when it's happening, and why it matters. By the end of the kickoff, everyone will be clear on the plan, the outcomes, and how we'll work together so the entire engagement goes smoothly and produces maximum value for your organization. 1. Kickoff Cadre's leadership team and yours will meet to set the foundation for what the next 45 days holds. We'll walk through all upcoming deliverables and timelines including your AI Maturity Index, the full-day workshop, use case library, 3-year vision, and your 12-month roadmap for how to get there. 2. AI Maturity Index This helps us map where your organization stands today on its AI journey. We discover the areas of excitement and fear across your team, their prefered learning modalities, how AI is currently being used, and more. The next step is understanding where your organization is today when it comes to AI adoption. We use our AI maturity index to map that out across your team. What people are excited about, what they're worried about, and how they like to learn. Plus, how AI is currently being used in each department in your org. This gives us real signal, not guesses or assumptions. Because if you don't know your starting point, any road map we build is gonna be off. This step makes sure everything we do afterward is grounded in reality and tailored towards shifting the AI mindset of your team. In a full day working session, we spend time with your team digging into the workflows across multiple departments. This helps us to determine how AI can drive measurable impact throughout the business, whether that's revenue growth, improving efficiency, or elevating employees. We meet with key stakeholders across executive leadership, go to market, rev ops, operations, delivery, customer support, finance, and more. Now there's a chance we'll need a couple of follow-up calls to dial in our findings, but this full day workshop gives us the majority of the data we need to get started on your use case library, which is where strategy starts to translate into practical direction. 3. Full-Day Workshop In this one-day workshop, we'll use initial findings from your AI Maturity Index and kickoff session to dig deep into ways AI can drive revenue, improve profitability and elevate employees. Throughout the day, we'll spend time with executive sponsors, go-to-market, revops, delivery, operations, customer support, finance, and more. 4. Use Case Library After spending a full day with various members of your team along with subsequent follow-up calls, we'll curate a list of AI use cases based on our findings. In this session, your team and ours will co-author the AI solutions that feel like immediate fits, projects for the future, and those that don't drive enough value to prioritize. Following the workshop, we take those insights and turn them into a structured set of opportunities that we call your use case library, which is a prioritized list of AI solutions tailored specifically to the pain points we discovered in your business. When we meet, we're gonna talk through each AI solution and evaluate which use cases are immediate opportunities, which are longer term investments, and which just won't provide enough value to focus on. This is a highly collaborative process ensuring that what's identified is both relevant and realistic to execute. Next is one of the more fun parts of the engagement, which is your three year vision. Now most organizations don't have an AI strategy for the next three months, let alone three years. And while you might be skeptical that anyone can predict where AI is gonna be in the next three years, we use every bit of information about what AI can do today and where we know it's heading to help you understand what's possible for your organization in the future and where your compass should be pointing. This includes how responsibilities may change over time, where automation will take over, where humans will continue to play critical roles, and how the ongoing AI shift may impact day to day life for your team. The goal is to provide a practical, forward looking view of what your organization can become so we can be proactive rather than reactive. 5. Three-Year Vision Everything we've done so far in this engagement leads us to crafting a robust three-year vision outlining how your organization could evolve given the speed AI is moving. We'll show you which roles are still human-led, which are fully automated, and how the ongoing AI shift will impact day-to-day life for your team. 6. Twelve-Month Roadmap The AI Transformation Intensive wraps up with a roadmap detailing which AI initiatives and additional workflow deep dives should be prioritized over the next year to get you closer to your three-year vision. This roadmap is built specifically for the pace your organization can absorb and is designed to systematically increase your organization's AI Maturity Index score. Finally, we take everything we learn from the kickoff, the AI maturity index, the team workshop, the use case library, and three year vision to develop a twelve month road map that outlines which AI initiatives you should prioritize now and how to best sequence them for maximum impact. The road map is carefully designed around your organization's capacity, ensuring it's both ambitious and achievable. We wanted to move you toward your long term vision with clarity, focus, and measurable progress. When we're done, you'll have a real AI strategy that'll drive meaningful enterprise value that you can use with your team, in board meetings, and with potential investors. So reach out today, and let's get started planning your AI future. From kickoff to 12-month roadmap within 45 days Start your AI Transformation today As your AI Strategy & Implementation Partner, ‍ we help you Drive Revenue Scale faster with AI-driven automation and predictive insights that unlock new growth opportunities. Increase Profitability Optimize operations and eliminate inefficiencies to boost profit margins and enterprise value. Elevate Employees Remove tedious tasks and empower your team to focus on high-impact, meaningful work. Company Home About Careers Terms of Service Privacy Policy Contact Us Services AI Strategy AI Leadership & Facilitation AI Engineering AI Agents Resources Case Studies Articles AI 2030 Podcast 2030 Podcast Events Industries AI for Professional Services AI for Private Equity AI for Real Estate AI for Financial Services AI for Mortgage & Lending AI for Construction AI for Retail & E-commerce AI for Manufacturing & Logistics AI for Hospitality Departments AI for Legal AI for Technology AI for Marketing AI for Customer Success AI for Finance AI for Operations AI for Executive Leadership AI for Sales Cadre AI Your AI Strategy & Implementation Firm ©2026 Cadre AI
