Careers in AI | Cadre AI Join the best team in AI We turn enterprise AI into real profitability, scale, and enterprise value. The growth mindset, especially when you bring on a new team member, is really getting the kind of people that want to move forward every day. They want to get better every day. It takes a lot of reflection on sort of what you did the day before, what you did in the weeks before, what didn't work, how to improve the next day and the next month. At CADRE, you notice that the people here are really ambitious. They come in, they come excited, they come motivated. You feel the momentum in the building. I think it's when you identify a problem, whether it's in your own area or in the business, and really owning that problem, owning the solution, taking responsibility for anything that you identify that's in your area. When I think of extreme ownership, I would say you never wanna point the finger at the team around you. You wanna own the problem and make sure that you can fix it going forward. If you love moving quickly, you love to learn, you love to jump forward and evaluate the past. When I'm talking to people who ask what it's like here at CADRE, I let them know, you know, it's fast paced. You're gonna learn from some really smart people. It's gonna be quick, but it's gonna be exciting at the same time. AI is cutting edge. It's new. It's moving fast, and we get to be part of that journey. We're building a collection of innovators and the most talented minds in AI who are passionate about transforming how businesses operate and eager to grow their careers at the cutting edge of technology. The Cadre Way The mindset and behaviors we hire for, reward, and live by Growth Mindset We are lifelong learners on a mission to get 1% better every single day Extreme Ownership We own the problem, the solution, and the outcome, regardless of scenario Team First We constantly find ways to make the entire team and company better Scrappy We are adaptable, resourceful, and always solving problems So at CADRE AI, we are a people business. We've AI enabled our business, but our success is purely based on having the best team aligned to a shared vision and mission. We have to treat them amazing. Partners. We have to help them accomplish their personal goals in their career. There's four things that we want every teammate to embody. And the first one is a growth mindset. We want people that are curious, that want to learn, that want to look in the mirror every day and say, how do I get better? The second one is extreme ownership. You will run through that wall, you are deadline oriented, and you take great pride in what you deliver, and you don't wanna let your team members down. The third one is teamwork. We are a team. We win together, we lose together. They're doing their role great, but they are finding ways to positively impact our team and business way beyond what their role is. And last but not least, the fourth is we are scrappy. We are agile, b we are resourceful. We want people that are nimble, agile, fast, comfortable working in in the vague areas and figuring it out. Are You The Brilliant Mind We’ve Been Looking For? At Cadre AI, our people are the core of everything we do. We invest, empower, and support our team to achieve greatness and find purpose professionally and personally. See below to learn more about available positions. Track your AI results Cadre gives you a centralized portal to track tools, agents, training, and results. Stay aligned, stay accountable, and scale what works. Get Your AI Results
